# SimpleInventory
ASP.Net simple inventory system with REST API

## To Run this App:
1.  Download to local repository

2.  Open with Visual Studio (Used VS 2015 to create it)

3.  Run with Chrome (or other) browser to see simple web test page, or

4.  Run unit tests.

## Documentation and Assumptions
This simple demo application was created using Visual Studio 2015 using 

### API

GET api/inventory  - returns all items in the inventory

GET api/inventory/{label}  - get a specific inventory item by label if it exists

POST api/inventory/{item} - add an item to the inventory by {item}.  Item should contain these field : (string)label, (DateTime)expiration, (string)type.

DELETE api/inventory/{label} - remove an item from inventory if it exists.

### Design
The design was implemented through Visual Studio, selecting a ASP Web API project type, and then and empty project.  I choose empty project so as to eliminate all the extra files generated by the system, and just show my work.  I then created directories for "Models", "Controllers", and "Service" so as to keep the core files neatly organized.  This project roughly follows the MVC pattern, minus the views since it is purely an API provider.  The service directory holds the code for the automatic data expiration system, that unlike the api code, is initiated at startup and runs continously.  The Models directory holds data related files.  The controller directory holds the one controller file that supports the inventory api methods.

### Assumptions for this Simple Inventory ASP.Net application
1.  Inventory items are only specified by their "label" attribute.

2.  There is no implementation of inventory count for a particular item.  Adding a new item with the same label as an existing item will over-write the exisiting item.  Removing a particular item removes the one and only item with this label.

3.  The system does not implement Authorization or Authentication at this time.  Anyone can access, add, or remove any item.

4.  The mechanism for automatically removing expired items runs as a separate, stand-alone thread.  This thread wakes-up every second to check the inventory for expired items.  If an item has expired, it is removed from the data store, and a debug console message is displayed for notification.  This 'expiring' mechanism does not take into account how many items are in the inventory so it could potentialy take a significant amount of time and resources to run if the data store contained a large amount of items.  Ideally this mechanism would have built-in throttling so that it would not tie-up computer resources and the data repository.

5.  The REST API for the inventory system uses the basic HTTP verbs to provide CRUD data access (minus the 'U' at this time.).
